README.md, before:

[![GoDoc](http://godoc.org/github.com/robfig/cron?status.png)](http://godoc.org/github.com/robfig/cron)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/robfig/cron.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/robfig/cron)

# cron

## DRAFT - Upgrading to v3

cron v3 is a major upgrade to the library that addresses all outstanding bugs,
feature requests, and clarifications around usage. It is based on a merge of
master which contains various fixes to issues found over the years and the v2
branch which contains some backwards-incompatible features like the ability to
remove cron jobs. In addition, v3 adds support for Go Modules and cleans up
rough edges like the timezone support.

It is currently IN DEVELOPMENT and will be considered released once a 3.0
version is tagged. It is backwards INCOMPATIBLE with both the v1 and v2
branches.

New features:

- Extensible, key/value logging via an interface that complies with
  the github.com/go-logr/logr project.

Updates required:

- The v1 branch accepted an optional seconds field at the beginning of the cron
  spec. This is non-standard and has led to a lot of confusion. The new default
  parser conforms to the standard as described by [the Cron wikipedia page].

  UPDATING: To retain the old behavior, construct your Cron with a custom
  parser:

      // Seconds field, required
      cron.New(cron.WithSeconds())

      // Seconds field, optional
      cron.New(
          cron.WithParser(
              cron.SecondOptional | cron.Hour | cron.Dom | cron.Month | cron.Dow | cron.Descriptor))

- The Cron type now accepts functional options on construction rather than the
  ad-hoc behavior modification mechanisms before (setting a field, calling a setter).

  UPDATING: Code that sets Cron.ErrorLogger or calls Cron.SetLocation must be
  updated to provide those values on construction.

- CRON_TZ is now the recommended way to specify the timezone of a single
  schedule, which is sanctioned by the specification. The legacy "TZ=" prefix
  will continue to be supported since it is unambiguous and easy to do so.

  UPDATING: No update is required.

Planned updates before calling v3 done:

- Job "Interceptors" (name tbd), which make it easy for callers to mix desired
  behavior like the following:
  - Recover any panics from jobs
  - Block this job if the previous run hasn't completed yet
  - Logging job invocations
  - Notification when jobs are completed

- Fix all open bugs

### Background - Cron spec format

There are two cron spec formats in common usage:

- The "standard" cron format, described on [the Cron wikipedia page] and used by
  the cron Linux system utility.

- The cron format used by [the Quartz Scheduler], commonly used for scheduled
  jobs in Java software

[the Cron wikipedia page]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron
[the Quartz Scheduler]: http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.x/tutorials/crontrigger.html

The original version of this package included an optional "seconds" field, which
made it incompatible with both of these formats. Instead, the schedule parser
has been extended to support both types.

Commit message:

cron/chain: add Chain & JobWrapper types to decorate job executions with cross-cutting concerns
These JobWrappers are provided:
- SkipIfStillRunning skips a job if the previous invocation is still running.
- DelayIfStillRunning blocks a job invocation until the previous one is done.
- Recover, to recover from panics in the job.

BREAKING: This removes the default behavior of recovering from job panics.
That must now be opted-into using WithChain(Recover(logger)).
Having it be the default behavior can be surprising (see issue #192)
and is at odds with most libraries.

Fixes #191
Fixes #192

README.md, after:

[![GoDoc](http://godoc.org/github.com/robfig/cron?status.png)](http://godoc.org/github.com/robfig/cron)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/robfig/cron.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/robfig/cron)

# cron

## Upgrading to v3 (June 2019)

cron v3 is a major upgrade to the library that addresses all outstanding bugs,
feature requests, and rough edges. It is based on a merge of master which
contains various fixes to issues found over the years and the v2 branch which
contains some backwards-incompatible features like the ability to remove cron
jobs. In addition, v3 adds support for Go Modules and cleans up rough edges like
the timezone support.

New features:

- Extensible, key/value logging via an interface that complies with
  the github.com/go-logr/logr project.

- The new Chain & JobWrapper types allow you to install "interceptors" to add
  cross-cutting behavior like the following:
  - Recover any panics from jobs (activated by default)
  - Delay a job's execution if the previous run hasn't completed yet
  - Skip a job's execution if the previous run hasn't completed yet
  - Log each job's invocations
  - Notification when jobs are completed

  To avoid breaking backward compatibility, Entry.Job continues to be the value
  that was submitted, and Entry has a new WrappedJob property which is the one
  that is actually run.

It is backwards incompatible with both v1 and v2. These updates are required:

- The v1 branch accepted an optional seconds field at the beginning of the cron
  spec. This is non-standard and has led to a lot of confusion. The new default
  parser conforms to the standard as described by [the Cron wikipedia page].

  UPDATING: To retain the old behavior, construct your Cron with a custom
  parser:

      // Seconds field, required
      cron.New(cron.WithSeconds())

      // Seconds field, optional
      cron.New(
          cron.WithParser(
              cron.SecondOptional | cron.Hour | cron.Dom | cron.Month | cron.Dow | cron.Descriptor))

- The Cron type now accepts functional options on construction rather than the
  ad-hoc behavior modification mechanisms before (setting a field, calling a setter).

  UPDATING: Code that sets Cron.ErrorLogger or calls Cron.SetLocation must be
  updated to provide those values on construction.

- CRON_TZ is now the recommended way to specify the timezone of a single
  schedule, which is sanctioned by the specification. The legacy "TZ=" prefix
  will continue to be supported since it is unambiguous and easy to do so.

  UPDATING: No update is required.

- By default, cron will no longer recover panics in jobs that it runs.
  Recovering can be surprising (see issue #192) and seems to be at odds with
  typical behavior of libraries. Relatedly, the `cron.WithPanicLogger` option
  has been removed to accommodate the more general JobWrapper type.

  UPDATING: To opt into panic recovery and configure the panic logger:

      cron.New(cron.WithChain(
          cron.Recover(logger),  // or use cron.DefaultLogger
      ))


### Background - Cron spec format

There are two cron spec formats in common usage:

- The "standard" cron format, described on [the Cron wikipedia page] and used by
  the cron Linux system utility.

- The cron format used by [the Quartz Scheduler], commonly used for scheduled
  jobs in Java software

[the Cron wikipedia page]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron
[the Quartz Scheduler]: http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.x/tutorials/crontrigger.html

The original version of this package included an optional "seconds" field, which
made it incompatible with both of these formats. Now, the "standard" format is
the default format accepted, and the Quartz format is opt-in.
